WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING AT IS A
BREAKING SITUATION.
THAT IS THE SMOKE, FROM WHAT
WE'RE TOLD, IS ARTILLERY FIRE
FROM NORTHERN ISRAEL.
YOU CAN HEAR SOME OF THE BLASTS
THERE, INTO SOUTHERN LEBANON.
THOSE ARE THE PICTURES NOW, LET
ME SHOW YOU ON THE MAP WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT RIGHT NOW.
THIS IS THE BORDER BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND LEBANON.
LET'S GO TO SOUTHERN LEBANON.
ARE BEING WEDEMAN IS STANDING
BY THEIR.
BEN, GIVE US A SENSE OF WHAT
YOU'RE SEEING AND HEARING.
.
>> JOHN, IN THE LAST FEW
MINUTES, WE HEARD SEVERAL LARGE
EXPLOSIONS IN THE MID DISTANCE.
RIGHT BEHIND ME, WHAT YOU'RE
SEEING IS THE MOUNTAIN.
ON ONE HALF OF IT IS LEBANON,
THE OTHERS ISRAEL.
AND RIGHT BEHIND ME IS THE
ISRAELI COMMUNITY OF MEDULLA.
THIS IS A TOWN THAT HAS BEEN
UNDER --
ITS A CLOSED MILITARY AREA FOR
THE LAST FEW HOURS.
BUT IN THE LAST FEW MINUTES, WE
HEARD SEVERAL LARGE EXPLOSIONS
IN THE DISTANCE.
IN ADDITION TO WHAT IS GOING ON
TO THE WEST OF HERE, NEAR THE
MEDITERRANEAN, ALONG THE BORDER
WHERE WE UNDERSTAND, ACCORDING
TO THE LEBANESE NEWS, THE
OFFICIAL LEBANESE NEWS AGENCY,
SEVERAL ROCKETS WERE FIRED IN
THE DIRECTION OF ISRAEL.
THEY WERE INTERCEPTED BY THE
IRON DOME SYSTEM.
THE ISRAELIS LEADER APPARENTLY
TARGETED, ACCORDING TO THE
LEBANESE NEWS AGENCY, AN ARMY
OBSERVATION POINT.
AND WE UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
ARE ONGOING EXCHANGES IN THAT
AREA AS WELL.
NOW, THIS IS SORT OF A CHANGE
FROM THE PACE DURING THE REST
OF THE DAY.
EARLIER IN THE DAY, IT WAS
RELATIVELY QUIET.
IN FACT, THE ASSUMPTION WAS
THAT PERHAPS THE WORST HAVE
PASSED.
HERE, I JUST HEARD ANOTHER
EXPLOSION.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU HEARD THAT
AS WELL.
AND ANOTHER ONE.
SO IT DOES APPEAR THAT THINGS
ARE PICKING UP.
I CAN HEAR THE IMPACT OF THAT
ONE IN THIS DIRECTION.
THERE ARE LEBANESE SOLDIERS
HERE, OBSERVING WHAT IS GOING
ON.
OKAY, I'M JUST GOING TO STEP
OUT OF THE WAY.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE TOP OF THAT
HILL, THERE'S A PLUME OF SMOKE.
I BELIEVE, BUT I'M NOT CERTAIN,
THAT THAT SIDE OF THE HILL IS
LEBANON.
BUT I CAN'T SAY WITH ABSOLUTE
CERTAINTY.
SO YES, THIS JUST BEGAN A FEW
MINUTES AGO.
WE DON'T KNOW THE REASON, THE
CAUSE, BUT CERTAINLY THE
TENSIONS HERE ARE EXTREMELY
HIGH.
HEZBOLLAH, THE MAIN SORT OF
MILITARY FORCE IN THIS AREA, IN
ADDITION TO THE LEBANESE ARMY,
HAS BY AND LARGE BEEN
RELATIVELY RESTRAINED DURING
THE OUTBREAK OF FIGHTING IN
GAZA.
YEAH, I CAN HEAR ANOTHER
IMPACT.
SO YOU CAN SEE THE SMOKE ON THE
TOP OF THE HILL.
IT APPEARS MULTIPLE IMPACTS UP
THERE.
WHAT I THINK I'M HEARING IS
OUTGOING FIRE, AND MOMENTS
LATER YOU HEAR THE IMPACT.
THERE IT IS RIGHT THERE.
JOHN?
>> WE HEAR THE THUDS.
WE HEAR THE THUDS, BEN, AND IF
YOU CAN EXPLAIN, AND YOU KNOW
THIS REGION SO.
WELL WE'VE BEEN SO FOCUSED ON
GAZA, TO THE SOUTH.
IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE MAP OF
A SERIAL.
YOU ARE OF COURSE ON THE
NORTHERN BORDER BETWEEN ISRAEL
AND LEBANON.
THE CONCERN THERE IS THAT YOU
SAW FLUSH ON THAT HILL.
I DID, A MOMENT AGO.
>> STEP OUT OF THE WAY.
>> THE CONCERN FOR ISRAEL IN
TERMS OF WHAT HAPPENS IN
LEBANON ISN'T SO MUCH THE
LEBANESE GOVERNMENT, BUT IT IS
HEZBOLLAH.
WHY ARE THEY SO CONCERNED ABOUT
WHAT HEZBOLLAH MIGHT DO, AND
WHAT KIND OF LINES HAS
HEZBOLLAH PUBLICLY DRAWN?
IT SAYS, THIS IS ONE WILL GET
INVOLVED IN THIS.
>> DON, THE ISRAELIS ARE
CONCERNED BY THE FACT THAT HAS
BELOW, NOT JUST --
GET MY FLAK JACKET ON WHAT I'M
TALKING TO YOU.
THE ISRAELIS ARE CONCERNED THAT
IF HEZBOLLAH BECOMES INVOLVED,
IT IS A FORMIDABLE MILITARY
ORGANIZATION.
MADE SO WITH THE HELP OF IRAN.
AND WE SAW EVEN BACK IN 2006
THAT HAS BLOW WAS ESSENTIALLY
ABLE TO FIGHT THE ISRAELIS TO A
STANDSTILL.
SINCE THEN, THEIR CAPABILITIES
HAVE ONLY IMPROVED.
THEIR WEAPONRY HAS ONLY
IMPROVED, THEY HAVE A BREADTH
OF EXPERIENCE AND IN HOUSE TO
HOUSE AND STREET TO STREET
WARFARE FROM SYRIA.
SO IF THEY BECOME INVOLVED,
IT'S A WHOLE DIFFERENT
SITUATION THAN WHAT YOU HAVE IN
GAZA.
FAR GREATER.
I SEE ANOTHER IMPACT UP THERE.
NOW, HAS BLOT HAS SORT OF SAID
THAT IF ISRAEL ATTACKS LEBANON,
IT WILL BECOME FULLY INVOLVED.
THE HEAD OF HEZBOLLAH HAS MADE
IT CLEAR THAT HEZBOLLAH WILL
DECIDE A TIME AND PLACE WHERE
IT WILL ENGAGE WITH ISRAEL, AND
THAT HEZBOLLAH WILL NOT BE
DRAWN INTO A WAR, NOT OF ITS
CHOOSING.
AND BASICALLY, IT DOES APPEAR
THAT AT LEAST UNTIL NOW HAS
BLOWOUT HAS BEEN HESITANT TO
BECOME INVOLVED IN THIS WAR.
NOW, THIS COULD BE SIMPLY A
PASSING INCIDENT, NOT
NECESSARILY THE BEGINNING OF
SOMETHING.
BUT IT CERTAINLY DOES REPRESENT
SOMETHING OF A DETERIORATION.
JOHN?
>> AN EXCHANGE OF FIRE, TO BE
SURE THERE.
WE CAN SEE THE SMOKE RISING
ABOVE THE HILL BEHIND YOU.
YOU'RE BACK IN FRAME, THE SMOKE
RISING ABOVE THE HILL.
WE DID SEE A SMALL FLASH THEIR.
TO BE CLEAR, THAT SMOKE RISING
BEHIND YOU IS LEBANON.
THOSE ARE THE IMPACT ZONES AT
THIS POINT, WHERE THINGS ARE
LANDING.
THAT IS INSIDE LEBANON, YOU
BELIEVE?
>> I DO BELIEVE SO, YES.
I SORT OF HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE
TO CHECK MY COORDINATES EXACTLY,
BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT IS
LEBANON.
>> ALL RIGHT, WE DO APPRECIATE
YOU BEING THERE, BEING WITNESS
TO THIS.
BE SAFE, AND PLEASED TO KEEP US
POSTED.
BECAUSE THESE DEVELOPMENTS ARE
SO CRUCIAL TO SEE, IF IT DOES
ESCALATE EVEN MORE.
ALL RIGHT, BEN WEDEMAN, UP HERE
ON THE BORDER BETWEEN ISRAEL
AND LEBANON.
WE'RE GOING TO GO DOWN HERE NOW
TO GAZA.
I CAN SHOW YOU THE SITUATION
THERE.
OR ERIN BURNETT IS IN SOUTHERN
ISRAEL, NOT FAR.
THIS IS THE BORDER, THIS IS
GAZA RIGHT HERE.
THIS IS EGYPT RIGHT HERE, SHE'S
NOT FAR FROM GAZA, SHE'S NOT
FAR FROM EGYPT.
AND THIS REGION RIGHT HERE,
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING NOW?
>> ALL RIGHT, SO WE'RE JUST
OVER --
FROM A MAJOR STAGING AREA FOR
AN ISRAELI TANK BATTALION,
JOHN.
AND BASICALLY THIS PARTICULAR
TANK BATTALION, THEY WERE IN ON
SATURDAY AMONG THE ATTACKS, THE
FIRST TO GO IN SATURDAY
AFTERNOON, AND THEY'RE NOW
STAGING, RESUPPLYING, AND THEY
SAY THEY'RE READY.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE SEEING.
BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN SPENDING
TIME GOING UP AND DOWN THIS
GAZA BORDER.
RIGHT NOW WE'RE ABOUT THREE
MILES AWAY FROM THE GAZA BORDER
ITSELF, AND AS YOU HAVE BEEN
SAYING, WE ARE ABOUT TEN OR SO
MILES FROM THE EGYPTIAN BORDER.
SO RIGHT HERE, ALONG THE SOUTH,
THERE'S BEEN MASSIVE STAGING OF
ISRAELI FORCES.
WHEN YOU HEAR THAT GOING BY,
THOSE ARE ALL MILITARY
VEHICLES.
I WILL SAY, THEY'RE ALSO BUSING
IN TROOPS ON BUSES.
LITERALLY COACHES.
SO IF YOU SEE 50 OR SO OF THOSE
WITHIN THE PAST PIT, WE'VE SEEN
250 TROOPS COMING IN.
IT'S A CONSTANT FLOW IN.
AND WE'RE GOING TO THINK THAT
THEY'VE BEEN SAYING THAT THEY
HAVE 350,000 TROOPS ALREADY AT
THE BORDER WHERE WE ARE.
THEY'VE JUST BEEN ADDING IN
CONSTANTLY THROUGH TODAY.
CONSTANTLY THROUGH THE DAY, AND
WE HAVE SEEN A HIGHER STATE OF
READINESS.
NOT JUST AT THE TANK BATTALION,
BUT ALSO WITH THE TROOPS COMING
IN, WEARING THEIR HELMETS,
WEARING THEIR PROTECTIVE
EQUIPMENT.
THEY ARE READY, AND THERE IS A
STATE OF READINESS.
OBVIOUSLY, WHAT THAT MEANS, WE
CAN'T TELL YOU IN TERMS OF HOW
IMMINENT ANY ACTION MIGHT BE.
BUT WE HAVE SEEN THAT SHIP
BETWEEN TODAY AND THE LAST FEW
DAYS.
WE'RE CONTINUING TO HEAR THE
ARTILLERY FIRE AND THOSE
THOUGHTS AND EXPLOSIONS.
IN THIS CASE, IN GAZA, SIMILAR
TO WHAT OF COURSE BEEN WAS JUST
SHOWING YOU LIVE, AS THAT
ARTILLERY WAS COMING INTO
SOUTHERN LEBANON.